add synonym graph token filter docs #8448 (#8458)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _analyzers/token-filters/synonym-graph.md

---
layout: default
title: Synonym graph
parent: Token filters
nav_order: 420
---

# Synonym graph token filter

> The `synonym_graph` token filter is a more advanced version of the `synonym` token filter. It supports multi-word synonyms and processes synonyms across multiple tokens, making it ideal for phrases or scenarios in which relationships between tokens are important.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `synonym_graph` token filter is a more advanced version of the `synonym` token filter. It supports multiword synonyms and processes synonyms across multiple tokens, making it ideal for phrases or scenarios in which relationships between tokens are important.
```

## Parameters

The `synonym_graph` token filter can be configured with the following parameters.

Parameter | Required/Optional | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :--- 

> `synonyms` | Either `synonyms` or `synonyms_path` must be specified | String | A list of synonym rules defined directly in the configuration.

Reviewer: Nit: Here and on the following line, because they are technically complete sentences, the "Either" sentences should end with a period (I believe, however, that we may not do this on the other pages).

> `synonyms_path` | Either `synonyms` or `synonyms_path` must be specified | String | The file path to a file containing synonym rules (either an absolute path or a path relative to the config directory).

Reviewer: Should "config" be "configuration" or "`config`"?

`lenient` | Optional | Boolean | Whether to ignore exceptions when loading the rule configurations. Default is `false`.

> `format` | Optional | String | Specifies the format used to determine how synonyms are defined and interpreted by OpenSearch. Valid values are:<br>- `solr` <br>- [`wordnet`](https://wordnet.princeton.edu/). <br> Default is `solr`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`format` | Optional | String | Specifies the format used to determine how OpenSearch defines and interprets synonyms. Valid values are:<br>- `solr` <br>- [`wordnet`](https://wordnet.princeton.edu/). <br> Default is `solr`.
```
